# IIEC RISE 1.0 Docker Training

#### In the month of March 2020 I had training on docker technology where I learnt lots of things under the guidance of Mr. Vimal Daga sir , now we are concluding this training so I have made this project for implementing whatever we have learnt in the 24 hours online class.
### This is a project along with my experience while learning docker whatever problems I faced how I resolved them is provided here. 

## 1. System Requirenments :
  We will require an operating system it may be bare metal or virtual machine I have used RHEL version 8 for the same. Basically I have windows installed on my machine on the top of it I have installed RHEL 8 as a virtual machine.
  
## 2. Docker Installation :
 * First of all copy the path of url from where we are going to install docker `https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/7/x86_64/stable/` I would suggest go through this URL for installation. In the RHEL I have configure yum for installing community eddition of Docker.
 * I faced one problem where my docker container was unable to run as security system was refusing so I have got the solution while qna
`setenforce 0` this will turn of security enforcement. 

## 3. Downloading Images :
 * This is very simple task we just have to pull images of os from `https://hub.docker.com/` I have used centos image for configuring my webserver as well as a client .
 * `https://hub.docker.com/_/centos` this is the official image provided by centos we can pull this image by `docker pull centos` this  command 
 
 ## 4. Network creation :
  * I have created my own network for this project for convinience in development.
  * `docker network create --driver bridge webnet` here driver is network mode I have used bridge as I have to communicate with internet.
  
 ## 5. Server creation  :
  * I have launched one centos image in my  container using `docker run -it centos:latest` command. 
  * for configuration of webserver I have installed some softwares.  First of all I was going to deploy my website on apache webserver so I have downloaded required softwares.
  * for installing apache webserver there are 3 steps 
    *  Software installation using `yum install httpd`
    *  Deploying webpages inside `/var/www/html` folder
    *  Start services using `systemctl start httpd.services` but in docker container systemctl process doesn't initializes so we have 
  using `yum install httpd` I have installed software for webserver.
  
  ## 6. Website Deployment :
   * Now I have to deploy my website on apache webserver as I have mentioned earlier we have keep all the data that we have in `/var/www/html` folder 
   * I have keep my webpages and other data in my github repository `https://github.com/ajinkya48765/Docker-Project---Develpement-Repo` 
   * For github intrigation I have installed git in my image using `yum install git`.
   * I have fetched all the data from my repo and kept inside that folder.
   * Now we are all set with website deployment now we just have to start service.
   
  ## 7. Configuration for automatically starting server on booting the image :
   * In centos at the time of os booting one file always runs and that is `/etc/bashrc` so we will keep our command for server creation in it so that everytime when os boots this command will run. 
   * while doing this I faced a problem because when os boots it creates process of server creation but and information is stored in `/var/run/httpd/` folder so we also have to remove this complete folder before running booting container. I have used `rm -rf /var/run/httpd/*` command for this.
   * Now my webserver is completely automatic now I just want a volume which will store all of my data.
  ## 8. Volume Creation :
   * Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers
      * Volumes are easier to back up or migrate than bind mounts.
      * You can manage volumes using Docker CLI commands or the Docker API.
      * Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers.
      * Volumes work on both Linux and Windows containers.
      * Volumes can be more safely shared among multiple containers.
      * Volume drivers let you store volumes on remote hosts or cloud providers, to encrypt the contents of volumes, or to add other functionality.
      * New volumes can have their content pre-populated by a container.
   * So I have created a volume called webset for storing all my data using `docker volume create webset`
   
  ## 9. Image Creation using commit :
   * Now as I have configure normal centos according to my requirenment and I have to save it so we have an option called commit.
   `docker container commit [OPTIONS] container [REPOSITORY : VERSION]`
   
  ## 10. Start container using precreated image : 
   * now as we have created our own image now we can multiply this as many times we want and can make as many servers we want in just few seconds.
   * But this time while creating an image I have mount my volume in the storage folder  I used `docker ` this command. 
   * as you can see along with volume I have also used network as my personel network which I have created earlier.
   
   ## 11. Docker Compose :
   * Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. With Compose, you use a YAML file to configure your application’s services.
     * Start, stop, and rebuild services
     * View the status of running services
     * Stream the log output of running services
     * Run a one-off command on a service 
   * We have to create file docker-compose.yml this name should always be same.   
   * Then we have some more options like in one click we can build whole infrastructure using `docker-compose up` command.  
   * To stop services temporary we have `docker-compose stop`  
   * To start stopped services we have `docker-compose start` 
   * To destroy whole infrastructure we have `docker-compose down`
